---
title: Heroku Scala Support
slug: scala-support
url: https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/scala-support
description: Reference documentation describing the support for Scala on Heroku's Cedar stack.
---

The Heroku Cedar stack is capable of running a variety of types of Scala applications.

This document describes the general behavior of the Cedar stack as it relates to the recognition and execution of Scala applications. For a more detailed explanation of how to deploy an application, see:

[Getting Started with Scala on Heroku](getting-started-with-scala)

## Activation
Scala applications are recognized when files matching any of the following patterns are found:

 - `/*.sbt`
 - `/project/*.scala`
 - `/project/build.properties`
 - `/.sbt/*.scala`

When a deployed application is recognized as a Scala application, Heroku responds with `-----> Scala app detected`.

```term
$ git push heroku master
-----> Scala app detected
```

If an application also contains a `/conf/application.conf` file, a Play 2.0 application is detected and Heroku responds with `-----> Play 2.0 app detected`. Please see the [Heroku Play Support](play-support) article for more information.

Scala applications that use Maven can be deployed as well, but they will be treated as Java applications, so [Heroku Java Support](java-support) will apply.

## Environment
The following environment variables will be set:

 - `PATH`: `.sbt_home/bin:/usr/local/bin:/usr/bin:/bin`
 - `JAVA_OPTS`: `-Xmx384m -Xss512k -XX:+UseCompressedOops`
 - `SBT_OPTS`: `-Xmx384m -Xss512k -XX:+UseCompressedOops`
 - `REPO`: `/app/.sbt_home/.ivy2/cache`
 - `PORT`: HTTP port to which the web process should bind
 - `DATABASE_URL`: URL of the [Heroku Postgres](heroku-postgresql) database connection

> note
> [Resizing dynos](dyno-size) does not automatically change JVM memory settings. The `JAVA_OPTS` [config var](config-vars) should be manually adjusted for the JVM.

### Adjusting Environment for a Dyno Size

When a new dyno size is selected, the following `JAVA_OPTS` updates are recommended:

* `1X`: -Xmx384m -Xss512k
* `2X`: -Xms768m -Xmx768m -Xmn192m
* `PX`: -Xmx4g -Xms4g -Xmn2g

### Monitoring Resource Usage

Additional JVM flags can be used to monitor resource usage in a dyno. The following flags are recommended for monitoring resource usage:

```
-XX:+PrintGCDetails -XX:+PrintGCDateStamps -XX:+PrintTenuringDistribution -XX:+UseConcMarkSweepGC
```

See the [troubleshooting](java-memory-issues) article for more information about tuning a JVM process.

## Build behavior

Applications must include a `/project/build.properties` file with the `sbt.version` property specifying a release version of SBT 0.11.0 - 0.13.5. SBT release candidates (i.e. RC versions) are not supported.

The Heroku Scala buildpack will run `sbt compile stage` to build the application. Applications must include a `stage` task, which performs any tasks needed to prepare an application to be run in-place. For example, Typesafe’s [`sbt-start-script`](https://github.com/sbt/sbt-start-script) adds a `stage` task to SBT that generates start scripts for an application. To use the plugin, create a `/project/build.sbt` file containing:

```
resolvers += Classpaths.typesafeResolver

addSbtPlugin("com.typesafe.sbt" %% "sbt-start-script" % "0.10.0")
```

### Clean builds
In some cases, builds need to clean artifacts before compiling. If a clean build is necessary, configure builds to perform `clean` by setting `SBT_CLEAN=true`:

```
$ heroku config:set SBT_CLEAN=true
Setting config vars and restarting example-app... done, v17
SBT_CLEAN: true
```

All subsequent deploys will use the `clean` task. To remove the `clean` task, unset `SBT_CLEAN`:

```
$ heroku config:unset SBT_CLEAN
Unsetting SBT_CLEAN and restarting example-app... done, v18
```

## Runtime behavior
By default, Scala applications are launched with start script generated by the [`sbt-start-script`](https://github.com/sbt/sbt-start-script):

```
web: target/start -Dhttp.port=$PORT $JAVA_OPTS
```

If an application is not using the [`sbt-start-script`](https://github.com/sbt/sbt-start-script) or should be launched in a different way, a custom [`Procfile`](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/procfile) can be included in the root of the project specifying a different entry for the `web` process.

### Supported Java versions

Heroku currently uses OpenJDK to run your application. OpenJDK versions 6 and 7 are available.

You're able to select Java 6 or 7. Depending on which you select the latest available version of that Java runtime will be used each time you deploy your app.

Current versions are:

* Java 6 - `1.6.0_27`
* Java 7 - `1.7.0_45`

The JDK that your app uses will be included in the slug, which will affect your slug size.

### Specifying a Java version

You can specify a Java version by adding a file called `system.properties` to your application. 

Set a property `java.runtime.version` in the file:

    java.runtime.version=1.7
 
1.6 is the default so if you'd like to use Java 6 you don't need this file at all.

## Add-ons

A Heroku Postgres starter-tier database add-on is automatically provisioned for Scala applications. This populates the `DATABASE_URL` environment variable.